---
layout: default
---

## The First Mechanism

### Creation of the Void


At the beginning, there existed the All. It was the only and it was the every.

The All a fabric; a scaffold; frame, lattice, mesh, wires, fibers. The
foundation; the entirety.

In this All, nothing was diminished.

A small flutter went at first unnoticed, but the vibrations continued and
echoed and fed back on one another. The reverberations pulsing through the
All; quickening and strengthening and intensifying through this amplification.
The flutter absorbed itself, compounded, harmonized, and became more than a
tremble.

And so, upon the strings of the All, as if a great woven instrument, began the
first piece of the Song.

As it played, it resounded and simplified; evolved and spurred into existence
further pieces more elegant than the last. With each beat, the tune refined
its expression; moved nearer to a perfection. Yet near this pinnacle of
elegance, the All strained. Its fibers woven tightly and its laws interacting
in hitherto unknown ways.

Another shift to the Song and it reached the crescendo; its purity. But,
within the All, awry was miswoven. This perfect Song played upon an imperfect
instrument. The All quivered and shook and then quaked to a fevered pitch and
wail at the force.

There, at the epicenter of the commotion, a small irregularity not yet
corrected to precision was the weakness that spawned the Cataclysm. The power
of the Song exceeded the capabilities of the All.

Heaving and failure birthed a rift - the slightest of tears - which severed
the All and filled it with imperfection. A regression of the whole inflicted
by a shudder of the evolutionary advance.

A cord snapped. Tension on it from every direction and angle multiplying in
one area, lessening in another - creating chaotic pressure gradients. This
rupture quickly emanated… tension differentials shearing other strings…
bubbling, spreading, conflagrating.

The cacophony sent shock waves through the All that propagated and unraveled
the All to the Ruin of the strings. And thus erupted and was born the Void.

---

## The Second Mechanism

### Arise and Organization of Elemental Bits

The Void rent the All asunder and its flaws resolved to islands of All-fabric
set adrift. These pieces struggled to stabilize, but they sought perfection on
a null structure.

So the weave and threads further unwound and devolved to constituent
components. These Elemental Bits flung far and wide as the Cataclysm consumed
and spent itself.

As the Bits - infinitely tiny and innumerable - scattered, the Song faded
until it was no longer heard.

With the All broken, and the Song quiet, a great period of silence followed
and accompanied the Void, during which little happened.

On a small enough scale, the Elemental Bits shot through Void and traveled
long and unimpeded. However slightly, the Song resonated within them and
imparted them with Energy. The Song focused and brought more momentum to the
Bits. They flew about and collided, as chance allowed, and one bit grew to two
as they stuck.

Given a long enough expanse of time, there arose a multitudinous set of Bits.
The Song working in these groups to bind, build heat, and inspire
socialization. The collections grew larger, more energetic, and more numerous.
And, like a mass of humans, as their numbers grew, the more frenzied the Bits
became.

The heat buildup so intense a critical point was reached. Like groups on a
field boiling to battle and, later, war, the conglomerate erupted into a
furnace of fury, wrath, and flame.

The stars brought the Song back to an audible hum. Across the entire Void were
these flashpoints reached. The light sources drew crowds of those masses not
large enough to ignite on their own.

These clumps did still grow warm and the Song pervaded from their shell to
their core. The Song’s measures causing the planets to contract and expand;
forming stretches, wrinkles, and rifts on the surfaces. Giving each one a
unique aspect.

And with these motions, the surface contacted the Void. As with a child’s
breath meeting the frigid air, the surface Bits formed a great steam that
became the atmosphere and condensed upon the planets to settle as the oceans.

Across all these celestial bodies did the Song continue and grow louder yet;
driving them to seek out one another and form a symphony of individual
instruments.

And the stars and planets formed systems, galaxies, clusters. As a whole - the
inanimate.

Now the cosmos had been made through the death of the All, production of the
Void, and the emotion of the Song imparted to the Elemental Bits.

---

## The Third Mechanism

### Covering of the Inanimate

The Song grew in intensity and filled the Cosmos with motion. The Inanimate
pulsed with the progression of the Song. The Elemental bits now collapsed,
bound, inseperable. Stars poured out their energy to those fledgling spheres
that drew near and then orbited. The pitch of the Song shifted and the planets
reacted. The Song's measures caused the planets to expand and contract;
forming stretches, wrinkles, and rifts on the surfaces. Giving each a unique
aspect. At this boundary, where the planets and Void met, the surface Bits
formed a great steam. And so the planets gained their atmospheres. Another
change to the Song, and even the atmospheres were moved and the motion began
the rains which settled on the planets as oceans. A glaze that absorbed the
measures of the Song and captures the energy of the stars. These forces
combined, compounded, compressed and this refinement lead the planets to
termor. Starting in their oceans ripples which harmonized, focused, and
intensified. Building to waves that broke upon the shores. Whitecaps spreading
as the waves overlapped and peaked and troughed. The oceans boiled and writhed
and churned; spitting plumes of spray and foam that caught in the wind,
drifted across the creaking earth, and settled once the breeze failed. The
sea foam sticking and building and forming islands that spread, drifted,
wandered. The ripples and foam of the seas traveled together as embodiments of
the Song. Eventually covering the entire surface of the oceans. Waves and
sunlight adding to the heat held by the atmospheres of the planets. The Song's
music percolating through the atmosphere, with the starlight, to drip into the
sea foam. The froth shielding it; compacting it to its core; internalizing it.
This core buzzing and humming with intensity until the spark was hit and
spontanaeity begot life. At first a single instance of this interanlized,
revitalizing, self-nourishing energy. But then it erupted throughout these
cauldrons of power. These beings furnaces of the Song and a crucible for its
change. Forged through the Song and now aware of it. Each furnace an agent of
the Song; drawing in further energies and Elemental Bits, as a bellows, and
these ingredients reacted there in the crucible. Forming a new chord that
modified the undertones of the Cosmos.

---

## The Fourth Mechanism

### Reclamation
